## Making Changes to the Neural Units Table

The primary purpose of **XSort** is to assess the list of neural units generated by the researcher's spike-sorting
application and make changes to that list: removing bad units with poor signal-to-noise ratio that may have been 
"triggered" by noise; merging two different spike trains that appear to belong to the same unit; or splitting a spike
train that clearly contains two distinct popluations of spikes. The **XSort** views provide a variety of statistics and
data visualizations to help you make these determinations. This section describes how you can edit the contents of the
neural units table.

### Delete
Whenever a single unit (ie, a single row) is selected in the table, the **Edit | Delete** command is enabled. Selecting 
this command will remove the unit from the table and move the selection to the next unit.

Every unit in the units table has an associated internal cache file in the working directory which stores the unit's
spike train, computed per-channel spike templates, and other metrics. To facilitate reversing the deletion, the cache 
file itself is not removed; the unit can be quickly restored by reloading its metrics from that file.


### Merge
Whenever two units (**not** three) are selected in the units table, the **Edit | Merge** command is available; selecting
it will merge the spike trains of the two units into a new, _derived unit_. The new unit's UID has the form "Nx", where 
the suffix "x" indicates that it is a derived unit (the result of merging or splitting). The two component units are 
removed from the units table and the derived unit is added and selected for display. Its spike train is immediately 
written to an internal cache file, and a background task begins computing the unit's various metrics: per-channel spike 
templates, best SNR, primary channel, and so on.

As with the **Delete** command, the internal cache files for the two component units are not removed from the working 
directory after a merge. Undoing the merge is then simply a matter of removing the merged unit and restoring the two 
components by reloading their metrics from the relevant cache files.


### Split
The **Edit | Split** command splits a single neural unit into two derived units encapsulating disjoint subsets of the
original unit's spikes. The command is enabled only under very specific conditions:
1. A single unit is selected in the neural units table.
2. The principal component analysis for that unit -- which runs on a background task once the unit is selected -- has
completed so that the projection of the unit's spikes into PCA "space" is available in the **PCA view**.
3. A _split region_ has been defined on the PCA view (see the**Views** chapter of this guide).

The split region is a closed polygonal region that essentially divides the unit's spike train into two disjoint sets --
all those spikes which project inside the split region, and all those that lie outside. When you select **Edit | Split**,
two derived units are created (again with the "x" suffix in their UIDs) and added to the units table, while the split 
unit is removed. 

As with the other operations, the internal cache file for the removed unit is not itself removed. The spike train for
each of the derived units is immediately written to a cache file, the new units are selected, and a background task
begins computing the various metrics for each unit.

### Undo/Undo All

**XSort** maintains a full in-memory "edit history" for the current working directory. Should you exit the application 
or switch to a different working directory, that edit history is persisted to a dedicated file in the working directory.
When you return to that directory, **XSort** can load the edit history and quickly apply all of the edits -- restoring
the state of the neural units list to what it was the last time you visited the directory.

Select **Edit | Undo** to undo the most recent change in the edit history; the **Undo** menu item label includes a brief
description of the operation that will be undone. You can repeat this command as needed to restore the units table to
any prior state. If you need to restore it to its original state before any changes were made, use **Edit | Undo All**.

### Saving the changes to file

TODO.
