## Making Changes to the Neural Units Table

The primary purpose of **XSort** is to assess the list of neural units generated by the researcher's spike-sorting
application and make changes to that list: removing bad units with poor signal-to-noise ratio that may have been 
"triggered" by noise; merging two different spike trains that appear to belong to the same unit; or splitting a spike
train that clearly contains two distinct popluations of spikes. The **XSort** views provide a variety of statistics and
data visualizations to help you make these determinations. This section describes how you can edit the contents of the
neural units table.

### Editing a unit's label
You may specify a descriptive label for any unit in the units table. To edit the label, simply **Alt(Option)-click** on 
the corresponding cell under the **Label** column in the table and edit the label string "in place". The label may be up
to 25 characters in length (any leading and trailing whitespace is removed) and cannot contain any commas.

**XSort** provides a simple auto-completion feature when entering unit labels. It maintains a list of previously entered
labels, which is stored in your user preferences file (`.XSort.ini` in your home directory). As you start typing in the
label cell, a "suggested" label will appear if what you've typed matches an entry in the suggestion list; hit `Return` 
to accept the suggestion. You can also hit the `Tab` key to update the unit label and immediately start editing the label
for the next unit in the table.

### Delete
Whenever the primary focus unit is defined in the units table, the **Edit | Delete** command is enabled. Selecting 
this command will remove the unit from the table and move the selection to the next unit.

Every unit in the units table has an associated internal cache file in the working directory which stores the unit's
spike train, computed per-channel spike templates, and other metrics. To facilitate reversing the deletion, the cache 
file itself is not removed; the unit can be quickly restored by reloading its metrics from that file.

### Relabeling or deleting multiple neural units at one time
You can select any combination of units for editing purposes by holding down the `Alt(Option)` key while clicking on 
rows in the units table. The units in the **_edit selection set_** -- which is distinct from the display focus list -- 
are highlighted with a dark blue background in the UID cell only. `Alt-Click` toggles the selection status of the 
row/unit clicked. `Shift-Click` will add a contiguous range of rows to the edit selection set. Hitting the `Esc` key,
the space bar, or `Shift-Alt-Click` will clear the selection.

Once an edit selection is defined, edit the label of any neural unit and that label will also be assigned to each unit
in the selection. The multi-unit relabeling is added to your edit history as a single operation and may be "undone"
like any other operation.

When the edit selection set is not empty, the `Edit | Delete` command is enabled and will read "Delete selected units" if
more than one unit is selected. The selected units are deleted, again as a single undoable operation. This feature can
be useful when you're eliminating "garbage" units. For example, to remove all units with fewer than 100 spikes, sort the
table in ascending order by the **#Spikes** column, use` Shift-Click` to select all units with < 100 spikes, then 
`Ctrl(Command)-X` to delete the selected units.

#### Notes:
1. `Alt-Click` on the **Label** column will initiate an in-place edit of the unit label rather than toggle the selection 
status of the unit.
2. When the edit selection set is empty, the `Edit | Delete` command applies to the primary focus unit, if defined.

### Merge
Whenever two units (**not** three) are selected in the units table, the **Edit | Merge** command is available; selecting
it will merge the spike trains of the two units into a new, _derived unit_. The new unit's UID has the form "Nx", where 
the suffix "x" indicates that it is a derived unit (the result of merging or splitting). The two component units are 
removed from the units table and the derived unit is added and selected for display. Its spike train is immediately 
written to an internal cache file, and a background task begins computing the unit's various metrics: per-channel spike 
templates, best SNR, primary channel, and so on.

As with the **Delete** command, the internal cache files for the two component units are not removed from the working 
directory after a merge. Undoing the merge is then simply a matter of removing the merged unit and restoring the two 
components by reloading their metrics from the relevant cache files.

### Split
The **Edit | Split** command splits a single neural unit into two derived units encapsulating disjoint subsets of the
original unit's spikes. The command is enabled only under very specific conditions:
1. The display focus list contains only a single unit, the primary focus unit.
2. The principal component analysis for that unit -- which runs on a background task once the unit is selected -- has
completed so that the projection of the unit's spikes into PCA "space" is available in the **PCA** view.
3. A _split region_ has been defined on the PCA view (see the **Views** chapter of this guide).

The split region is a closed polygonal region that essentially divides the unit's spike train into two disjoint sets --
all those spikes which project inside the split region, and all those that lie outside. When you select 
**Edit | Split**, two derived units are created (again with the "x" suffix in their UIDs) and added to the units table, 
while the split unit is removed. 

As with the other operations, the internal cache file for the removed unit is not itself removed. The spike train for
each of the derived units is immediately written to a cache file, the new units comprise the current display focus list,
and a background task begins computing the various metrics for each unit.

### Undo/Undo All

**XSort** maintains a full in-memory "edit history" for the current working directory. Should you exit the application 
or switch to a different working directory, that edit history is persisted to a dedicated file in the working directory.
When you return to that directory, **XSort** can load the edit history and quickly apply all of the edits -- restoring
the state of the neural units list to what it was the last time you visited the directory.

Select **Edit | Undo** to undo the most recent change in the edit history; the **Undo** menu item label includes a brief
description of the operation that will be undone. You can repeat this command as needed to restore the units table to
any prior state. If you need to restore it to its original state before any changes were made, use **Edit | Undo All**.

### Saving the changes to file

To save the current state of the neural units table to a Python pickle file, use **File | Save as...** and select the
destination for the Python pickle file (`.pkl` or `.pickle` extension). **XSort** will block the UI with a modal
progress dialog while the current contents of the units table are written to the pickle file. If there are multiple 
units, with several hundred thousand spikes each, this operation could take a noticeable amount of time to finish.

The units are saved as a `List[Dict[str, Any]]`, where each dictionary in the list represents one neural unit
and contains the following key-value pairs:
- 'uid': The UID assigned to the neural unit (str).
- 'spikes': A 1D Numpy array holding the unit's spike timestamps in chronological order, in seconds.
- 'primary': The integer index identifying the primary channel on which the best signal-to-noise ratio was
  observed for the unit.
- 'snr': The signal-to-noise observed on the unit's primary channel (float).
- 'template': A 1D Numpy array holding the unit's mean spike waveform as recorded on the primary channel. The
  waveform spans 10-ms and is in microvolts.
